#summary Learn more about the guys behind working at the project
#labels Featured,About

These are the guys which are currently working at the project.

= Bonazzi Alessandro = 

Born in 1979, I'm a graduate student in Geophysics at the University of Bologna. My research interests concern data assimilation and statistical modelling.

I joined the Bayes-Swarm project to study applications of statistical modelling to problems that are new to my experience and to benifit from the collaboration with the Bayes-Swarm group.

= Brunori Paolo =
Born in Florence in 1979, graduated in political science and currently PhD cadidate in Economics. My nterest is data abalysis in social sciences. I joined the bayes-swarm project as a part of a larger project (bayesfor.eu), the attempt is to look at empirical problems from different point of views, sharing knowedge with people coming from a very different background. 

given my skills I'll be working at the output of bayes-swarm rather than at the programming

= Govoni Riccardo =
Born in 1979, with a university background in physics and a general interest in scientific matters, I am a technology-addict with an outstanding passion for computer science and programming. Currently working as system analyst in the IPTV field, my focus is about datamining behaviours and patterns from IPTV portals data.

I joined the *bayes-swarm* project as _technology expert_ to help in writing code and extraction algorithms.

Learn more about me at my [http://www.linkedin.com/in/battlehorse linkedin.com public profile] or contact me at this mail address: battlehorse at gmail dot com.

= Lampronti Giulio Isacco =
I was born in Florence in 1979, graduated in Geological Sciences and currently PhD student in Mineralogy. My interests are science and music (and politics and foreign languages if I only had time). I joined the bayes-swarm project because I believe you can learn much more from people with a different background and because I'm tired of Geology. And because Brunori Paolo forced me.

= Zandi Matteo = 
insert info here
