#summary How-to setup a local database on your machine with the bayes-swarm data
#labels Phase-Deploy,Phase-Support

= Introduction =

This document describes how to setup a copy of the bayes-swarm data on your machine in a local MySql database.
Follow the instructions in EnvironmentSetup to install the MySql database engine on your machine first.

If you are one of the bayes-swarm developers you can install one of the daily database backups from the www.bayes-swarm.com website. Otherwise, you can use the data in the FreeDataset .

= Detailed Instructions =

Once you have downloaded a dump of the database on your local machine, follow these instructions ( they are thought for Mac Os, but similar instructions apply for Linux and Windows as well ).

=== Database tuning ===

Before starting the database, you may have to tune its settings, given the size of the bayes-swarm dataset. You have to edit the `my.cnf` configuration file for MySql.  Start by using the `my-large.cnf` template.

{{{
sudo cp /usr/local/mysql/support-files/my-large.cnf /etc/my.cnf
}}}

now edit the `/etc/my.cnf` file and uncomment the following innodb options ( as recommended [http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/innodb-tuning.html here] ) :
{{{
innodb_buffer_pool_size = 256M
innodb_additional_mem_pool_size = 20M
innodb_log_file_size = 64M
innodb_log_buffer_size = 8M
innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit = 1
innodb_lock_wait_timeout = 50
}}}
 
You can now start the database engine:
{{{
sudo /usr/local/mysql/bin/mysqld_safe
}}}

and verify that the settings have been loaded properly :
{{{
/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysqld --verbose --help | grep innodb
}}}

( once finished working with MySql, you can stop it with `sudo /usr/local/mysql/bin/mysqladmin shutdown` ).

=== Import data ===
First of all, create the a database instance that will contain the data ( I assume you are using the default credentials for a locally installed MySql. Update them if you changed your installation details ) :
{{{
echo "create database bayesswarm022 ;" | /usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql -u root
}}}

Download the database dump (either from the daily backups, if you have access to them, or from the FreeDataset ) and rename it to `swarm_dump_pre.sql` . Before importing it, you have to add some optimization options, otherwise the import will take ages :

{{{
echo "SET FOREIGN_KEY_CHECKS=0;" >> swarm_dump.sql
echo "SET UNIQUE_CHECKS=0;" >> swarm_dump.sql
cat swarm_dump_pre.sql >> swarm_dump.sql
echo "SET UNIQUE_CHECKS=1;" >> swarm_dump.sql
echo "SET FOREIGN_KEY_CHECKS=1;" >> swarm_dump.sql
}}}

You are now ready to import the data : 
{{{
/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql -u root bayesswarm022 < swarm_dump.sql
}}}

After some time, depending on your machine capabilities, the `bayesswarm022` database will contain all the bayes-swarm data. Happy coding !


