#summary How to setup your pc to work and test the project
#labels Phase-Prototype

= Software Requirements =
You need the following softwares and elements to get started on the project :

== Database ==
The database of choice is [http://www.mysql.com/ MySql] (version 5 or later).

You may want to use some database management tool to work with it. We suggest [http://www.minq.se/products/dbvis/ DBVisualizer] , or [http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/gui-tools/5.0.html MySql GUI Tools] .

== Extraction Engine ==
The engine which performs data extraction, initial analysis and database storage is written in [http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/ ruby]. 
In addition to ruby, you may require some additional libraries, therefore you should also install the [http://rubygems.org/ rubygems] packaging system. 

A good introduction to ruby is Rolling with Ruby on Rails (revisited)
http://www.onlamp.com/pub/a/onlamp/2005/01/20/rails.html

The list of required libraries will be sorted out one day or another. For the moment refer to current prototype requirements , starting from PrototypeOne .

== Analysis Engine ==
The language of choice is [http://www.r-project.org/ R], wich provides, among other nice things like time series and cluster analysis, [http://cran.r-project.org/src/contrib/Descriptions/RMySQL.html RMySQL] an interface to MySql databates.

= Install Instructions =

== Linux: Ubuntu ==

=== MySql ===
Install mysql with apt-get:
{{{
sudo apt-get install mysql-server-5.0 mysql-client-5.0
}}}

if you want to have locally the full database, just download [http://kate.homeunix.net/~matteo/bayesfor/bayes-swarm_r-0.1.sql bayes-swarm_r-0.1.sql] and execute:

{{{
$ sudo mysql -p
mysql> create database bayesfortest;
mysql> use bayesfortest;
mysql> source /home/matteo/Desktop/bayes-swarm_r-0.1.sql
}}}

=== Ruby ===
Install ruby, rubygems and the required gems (the list shown below is incomplete):
 
{{{
sudo apt-get install ruby irb ri rdoc ruby1.8-dev rubygems tidy
sudo gem update --system
sudo gem install --remote ferret --include-dependencies
sudo gem install --remote tidy --include-dependencies
}}}

mysql/ruby bindings :
{{{
sudo apt-get install libmysql-ruby1.8
}}}

=== R ===
{{{
sudo apt-get install r-base
}}}

*warning*: you need to use R commands to install RMySql package (http://cran.r-project.org/src/contrib/Descriptions/RMySQL.html)

=== Python ===
Ubuntu comes with python preinstalled, make sure you have a recent version (2.5)

{{{
sudo apt-get install python-flup python-webpy
}}}

Make sure you have weby version >= 0.210. Python dependencies are met with standard Ubuntu repositories as of Gutsy (Ubuntu 7.10)

== Mac Os X ==
You may follow this guide to set up your ruby / mysql environment :
http://hivelogic.com/narrative/articles/ruby-rails-mongrel-mysql-osx

To install R, just use the official dmg provided at http://www.r-project.org/ . 

*warning*: add info on how to install python (is the default version available with macosx sufficient?)
== Windows ==

=== MySql ===
After installing MySQL Server 5.0, to get the full database, just download [http://kate.homeunix.net/~matteo/bayesfor/bayes-swarm_r-0.1.sql bayes-swarm_r-0.1.sql] and save it in C:\Programmi\MySQL. Then open MySQL Command Line Client and execute:

{{{
$ sudo mysql -p
mysql> create database bayesfortest;
mysql> use bayesfortest;
mysql> source C:\Programmi\MySQL\bayes-swarm_r-0.1.sql
}}}

=== R ===
*warning* : this section is still missing. 
 
 
 