#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Phase-Design

= Introduction =
this is my wish list...


= Details =

What I like of Prototype 1:

* it is working!!!!!
* the web page is essential but it is nice looking. I'll try to keep the "minimal" flavor also in the next versions. 
* the graphs are not fancy but they are clear unless we plot too many lines together

What I don't like of Prototype 1:

* it doesn't read full articles, just titles and the very first lines of the full text.
* the average count of words per day is about 10, we can't do any stat yet!!
* move the nerdy stuff to a private page. I won't let anyone doing queries directly to the db
* there is no Italian support


My suggestion are:

* move to RSS. RSS give direct access to title, link, date and description of any article that is cited in the home pages.
* the table "source" should contain entities that are related to news companies ( like BBC, Corriere, ...) and not to news aggregators ( like google.news ). For example we want to compare how much Repubblica and Corriere covered a subject. We can use news aggregetors to update the "sources" table.
* read full length articles, using the link provided by RSS home pages. This will increase significantly the word counts.
* wrap up these modifications, build a Prototype 1.1 and publish it. 







 
 



Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages

